1. What is Git?
Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes to files and coordinate work on those files among multiple people. It is commonly used for software development, but it can be used to track changes to any set of files.
With Git, you can keep a record of who made changes to what part of a file, and you can revert back to earlier versions of the file if needed. Git also makes it easy to collaborate with others, as you can share changes and merge the changes made by different people into a single version of a file.

2. What is GitHub?
GitHub is a web-based platform that provides hosting for version control using Git. It is a subsidiary of Microsoft, and it offers all of the distributed version control and source code management (SCM) functionality of Git as well as adding its own features. GitHub is a very popular platform for developers to share and collaborate on projects, and it is also used for hosting open-source projects.

3. What is Version Control? How many types of version controls we have?
Version control is a system that tracks changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later. It allows you to revert files back to a previous state, revert the entire project back to a previous state, compare changes over time, see who last modified something that might be causing a problem, who introduced an issue and when, and more.
There are two main types of version control systems: centralized version control systems and distributed version control systems.
A centralized version control system (CVCS) uses a central server to store all the versions of a project’s files. Developers “check out” files from the central server, make changes, and then “check in” the updated files. Examples of CVCS include Subversion and Perforce.
A distributed version control system (DVCS) allows developers to “clone” an entire repository, including the entire version history of the project. This means that they have a complete local copy of the repository, including all branches and past versions. Developers can work independently and then later merge their changes back into the main repository. Examples of DVCS include Git, Mercurial, and Darcs.

4. Why we use distributed version control over centralized version control?
Better collaboration: In a DVCS, every developer has a full copy of the repository, including the entire history of all changes. This makes it easier for developers to work together, as they don’t have to constantly communicate with a central server to commit their changes or to see the changes made by others.
Improved speed: Because developers have a local copy of the repository, they can commit their changes and perform other version control actions faster, as they don’t have to communicate with a central server.
Greater flexibility: With a DVCS, developers can work offline and commit their changes later when they do have an internet connection. They can also choose to share their changes with only a subset of the team, rather than pushing all of their changes to a central server.
Enhanced security: In a DVCS, the repository history is stored on multiple servers and computers, which makes it more resistant to data loss. If the central server in a CVCS goes down or the repository becomes corrupted, it can be difficult to recover the lost data.
Overall, the decentralized nature of a DVCS allows for greater collaboration, flexibility, and security, making it a popular choice for many teams.

5. Install Git on your computer
To install Git on an Ubuntu machine, run the following commands:

"sudo apt-get install"
"sudo apt-get update"
"sudo apt-get install git"

6. Create a new repository on GitHub and clone it to your local machine
To create a new repository on GitHub and clone it to your local machine, follow these steps:

Go to github.com and log in to your account.
Click the “New repository” button.
Enter a name for your repository and a brief description.
Choose whether you want the repository to be public or private.
Click the “Create repository” button.

To clone the repository to your local machine, follow these steps:

On the repository page on GitHub, click the “Clone or download” button.
Click the “Copy to clipboard” icon to copy the clone URL.
Open a terminal window and navigate to the directory where you want to clone the repository.
Run the following command: “git clone <clone-url>”, where “<clone-url>” is the URL you copied in step 2.

7. Make some changes to a file in the repository and commit them to the repository using Git
The command “vim testfile.txt” opens a text editor called Vim and create a new file called "testfile.txt".
The command “git status” shows the current status of the repository, including any changes or new files that have not been committed.
The command “git add testfile.txt” stages the changes made to “testfile.txt” so that they can be committed.
The command “ git commit -m “testing commit” ” creates a new commit with the specified commit message “testing commit” and include the changes that have been staged.
The command “git status” displays the status of the repository, and notes that the local branch is ahead of the remote branch by one commit.
The command “git remote -v” shows the remote repository that the local repository is currently connected to.
The command git remote set-url origin https://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@github.com/KumarWaghmare/DevOps-Resources.git is used to change the remote repository url, this could be used if the user want to connect to a different remote repository.
The command “git push origin main” is used to push the changes made locally and committed to the remote repository specified. This command will also push the branch specified which is "main" in this case, in order to keep the remote repository in sync with the local repository.
